Dear Sir / Mam,



As per SEBI Circular dated 31st July 2025, all Regulated Entities (REs) are mandated to ensure compliance with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016 and the related rules, specifically covering digital accessibility for persons with disabilities (PwDs).


REs shall refer to Annexure I (Attached Circular herewith) for detailed directions on ensuring compliance with Digital Accessibility requirements for Persons with Disabilities.


Key action points for your immediate attention and compliance:

Digital Accessibility Compliance:
All digital platforms (websites, mobile apps, portals) of REs must be accessible to Persons with Disabilities in line with RPwD Act, 2016, and relevant standards (WCAG 2.1, GIGW, IS17802).


Timelines and Milestone-Based Implementation:
REs shall provide updates on the status of implementation of accessibility provisions on all Digital Platforms, specifically in accordance with the following milestones:

​
Sr. No.

Timelines

Milestone

1

Within 1 month of the issuance of Circular

(By August 31, 2025)

Submit a list of all digital platforms (websites, mobile apps, etc.) provided for investors.

Submit a compliance or action-taken report based on the circular’s requirements.

2

Within 45 days of the issuance of circular

(By September 14, 2025)

Appoint IAAP-certified accessibility professionals as digital accessibility auditors.

3

Within 3 months of issuance of the circular

(By October 31, 2025)

Conduct accessibility audits of all digital platforms.

4

Within 6 months of issuance of circular

(By January 31, 2026)

Complete the remediation of audit findings and ensure full compliance with the circular.



 

Annual Reporting:
All REs must submit an annual accessibility compliance report within 30 days from the end of each financial year. Reporting will be done to SEBI, relevant stock exchanges, or BSE depending on the type of entity.


Scope:
All REs shall ensure that their Digital Platforms and content published on the digital platform shall strictly adhere to the accessibility standards and guidelines, including:

1. Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (“WCAG”) 2.1 or latest version.

2. Accessibility guidelines as described in the latest version of Guidelines for Indian Government Websites (“GIGW”).

3. IS 17802: Indian Standards on Accessibility Requirements for Information and Communication Technology (“ICT”) Products and Services.

4. Provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and corresponding rules for digital accessibility mentioned in this Circular.

These standards serve as the baseline for compliance under this circular and must be referred to in all digital initiatives.


Institutional Roles and Nodal Officers:
The Managing Director, Managing Partner, or Proprietor must review and approve the digital accessibility compliance.

A senior officer must be appointed as the Nodal Officer to oversee digital accessibility efforts. In the absence of such designation, the compliance officer or proprietor will be considered the default nodal officer.


Additionally, REs must set up a grievance redressal mechanism that is accessible to persons with disabilities and includes channels like email, phone helplines, and web forms.


Web and Document Accessibility:
Websites must include Indian Sign Language (ISL) videos, closed captions for audio, alternate text for images, and descriptive audio where needed.

All circulars, notices, and investor documents published on the Digital Platforms of the RE’s (website, mobile application, etc.) in PDF or other formats must follow accessible document standards—such as tagged PDFs, logical reading order, proper use of headings, and alt text.


Training and Awareness:
Training modules that give detailed understanding on digital accessibility (website, mobile application, etc.) shall be part of all internal training programs for staff and third-party service providers who are developing and publishing content for dissemination via Digital Platforms.


Inclusive Registration & e-KYC:
REs must ensure alternate processes (e.g. human-assisted video KYC) are in place for differently abled clients. Forms must include disability status with provision for human intervention.

KYC and client registration forms shall include a mandatory field to indicate disability status and options to select specific provisions such as helpdesk call back for assistance. Any application of a client with disability shall be rejected by the REs only after a review by a designated human officer and the said officer shall be empowered to override automated rejections and approve applications on a case by case basis, thereby ensuring equitable access to services of the REs for persons with disabilities.


Mandatory Accessibility Audits:
All REs must conduct comprehensive accessibility audits of their digital platforms.

               ·       The audits must be performed by IAAP-certified accessibility professionals.
               ·       The audit should follow the latest WCAG, GIGW, and RPwD Act standards.
               ·       Usability testing must involve persons with disabilities.


Applicability:
The provisions of this circular shall be applicable to all REs with effect from the date of this circular.


Enclosed is the SEBI Circular for your reference.'


You are requested to initiate implementation steps immediately and confirm adherence to the above timelines.


For any support or clarification, please feel free to contact us.

Sneha Rasania | Mob: +91 9428039996 | Email: sneha@secmark.in

Vishnu Chokra | Mob: +91 8108018209 | Email: vishnu@secmark.in

